Messages RFC (#85)
ZcashFoundation/redjubjub: rfcs/0001-messages.md

# FROST messages

Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup.

## Motivation

> Currently FROST library is complete for 2 round signatures with a dealer/aggregator setup.

Reviewer: Are these messages intended to be generic, or specific to a particular signature scheme?

## Definitions

- `dealer`
- `aggergator`
- `signer`
- `nonce`
- `commitment`
- 

## Guide-level explanation

We propose a message separated in 2 parts, a header and a payload:

```rust
struct Message {
    header: Header,
    payload: Payload,
}
```

`Header` will look as follows:

```rust
struct Header {
    msg_type: MsgType,
    version: MsgVersion,
    sender: Participant,
    receiver: Participant, 
}
```

While `Payload` will be defined as:

```rust
enum Payload {
    DealerBroadcast(MsgDealerBroadcast),
    Commitments(MsgCommitments),
    SigningPackage(MsgSigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(MsgSignatureShare),
    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust

> enum MsgType {

Reviewer: Marking enums with `non_exhaustive` means that you have to add a wildcard (`_`) case when matching, to handle any new message types.

Also you need to define the serialized size of the enum.
(Since it is only 1 byte, you do not need to define byte order.)

```suggestion
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
```

Reviewer: Also, what does message type `0` mean?
Does it have any special significance?
Is it always invalid?

Author: Message type `0` should be ok and now this is `DealerBroadcast`.

    DealerBroadcast = 1,
    Commitments = 2,
    SigningPackage = 3,
    SignatureShare = 4,
    FinalSignature = 5,
}

> enum MsgVersion {
>     FirstVersion = 1,
>     ..
> }
> 

Reviewer: There's not much point repeating the version numbers in the enum names.

(This change also defines the serialized size. Since it is only 1 byte, you do not need to define byte order.)

```suggestion
struct MsgVersion(u8);
```

Reviewer: What does message type `0` mean?
Does it have any special significance?
Is it always invalid?

struct Participant(u8);
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
// The dealer broadcast initial data, dealer must send
// this message to each participant involved.
struct MsgDealerBroadcast {

>     share: frost::SharePackage,

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if serializing and sending the whole `SharePackage` is the correct way since this struct contains other data that would be either repeated or not needed in the message. For example, the receiver ID. Similarly for the other message types. I think we need more abstract structures.

}

// The signer participants sends the commitments to the
// aggregator.
struct MsgCommitments {
    commitment: frost::SigningCommitments,
}

// The aggergator decide what message to be signed, 
// prepare it and broadcast to signers.
struct MsgSigningPackage {
    signing_package: frost::SigningPackage,
}

// Each signer send the signatures to the agregator who is going to collect them 
// and generate a final spend signature 
struct MsgSignatureShare {
    signature_share: frost::SignatureShare,
}

// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggegator 
// to any participant.
struct MsgFinalSignature {
    final_signature: Signature<SpendAuth>,
}

> ```

Reviewer: Where is the detail about the contents, serialized size, and byte order of the payloads?

Is it in this PR?
https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/83/files/d151f53df04942216b2f949bac3a2955b6f20ee0#diff-1bbc379ee3acceaae8fce834561d7f4fd12f300e1f5e9c24fb697bacdf40f9d1

## Serialization/Deserialization

Each message struct needs to serialize to bytes representation before it is sent through the wire and must deserialize to the same struct (round trip) on the receiver side. We use `serde` and macro derivations (`Serialize` and `Deserialize`) to automatically implement where possible.

This will require deriving serde in several types defined in `frost.rs`. 
Manual implementation of serialization/deserialization will be located at a new mod `src/frost/serialize.rs`.

> FROST inherit types from `jubjub` such as `Scalar`, `ExtendedPoint`, `AffinePoint`, etc. We need to decide how serialization of these types that are defined in external crates will be done (maybe with wrappers?).

Reviewer: It looks like this is a jubjub-specific implementation, please mention that in the introduction.

## Validation

> Validation is implemented to each new data type as needed. This will ensure the creation of valid messages before they are sent. For example, in the header sender and receiver can't be the same:

Reviewer: How are messages validated when they are received?

Author: Receiver side should call the same validation method as the sender.

```rust
impl Header {

>     pub fn validate(&self) {

Reviewer: You might want to turn `validate` into a trait, so that you can ensure every message is always validated.

Otherwise, it is easy to forget to validate a message.

Author: I updated the validation section however i am not sure if it is correct. Seems something is missing to really enforce, right now the developer must do a explicit call `validate()` on both sides.

Each `Fq` needed to form a `jubjub::ExtendedPoint` are `Scalar`s of `bls12_381` crate. Scalar here is `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L16

For message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice as they are shorter in bytes, they are formed of 2 `jubjub::Fq` instead of 5: https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L70-L73

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
256    | secret_key  | Scalar
512    | commitments | AffinePoint
256+32 | group_public| (AffinePoint, [u8; 32])

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
512   | hiding     | AffinePoint
512   | binding    | AffinePoint

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes      | Field name     | Data type
-----------|----------------|-----------

> ?          | message        | [u8]

Author: We don't know the size of the message. We can either limit the amount of bytes or move the `message` to the end of the structure and use `read_to_end()` or similar. Suggestions?

# FROST messages

> Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup.

Reviewer: You might also want to link to the jubjub crate here.
```suggestion
Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup using the jubjub curve.
```

    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

struct MsgVersion(u8);

struct Participant(u8);
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
// Dealer must send this message with initial data to each participant involved.
// With this, the participant should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
//  the `sign()` function.
// `group_public` is random data at this stage and `public_key` can be calculated
// from `secret_key`.
struct MsgDealerBroadcast {
    // The secret key as a frost::Scalar.
    secret_key: frost::Scalar,
    // Set of commitments as jubjub::ExtendedPoint using frost::Commitment wrapper.
    commitments: Vec<frost::Commitment>,
    // The generated public key for the group.

>     group_public: VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,

Reviewer: Are these `frost` or `jubjub` types?
```suggestion
    group_public: jubjub::VerificationKey<jubjub::SpendAuth>,
```

Author: This is a `frost` type, i updated.

}

// Each signer participant send to the aggregator the 2 points
//  needed for commitment building.
struct MsgCommitments {
    // The hiding Point.
    hiding: jubjub::ExtendedPoint,
    // The binding Point.
    binding: jubjub::ExtendedPoint,
}

// The aggergator decide what message is going to be signed and
// send it to each participant with all the commitments collected.
struct MsgSigningPackage {
    // Consist of a [u8] and vector of commitments.
    // Commitments are a signer id and a hiding and binding point.

>     signing_package: frost::SigningPackage,

Reviewer: Why not just unpack the signing package into its fields in this message?
It seems like you've unpacked all the other messages.

Author: Yes, we need to do this as we want to use `AffinePoint` everywhere in the messages and this type is using `ExtendedPoint` for the `SigningCommitments` part of the `SigningPackage`.

}

// Each signer send the signatures to the agregator who is going to collect them 
// and generate a final spend signature.
struct MsgSignatureShare {
    // The signature to be shared as a Scalar
    signature: frost::Scalar,
}

// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggegator 
// to any participant.
struct MsgFinalSignature {

>     final_signature: Signature<SpendAuth>,

Reviewer: Similarly, are these `frost` or `jubjub` types?

Author: frost.

}
```

## Validation

Validation is implemented to each new data type as needed. This will ensure the creation of valid messages before they are sent and right after they are received. We create a trait for this as follows:

```rust
pub trait Validate {
    fn validate(&self) -> &Self;
}
```

And we implement where needed. For example, in the header sender and receiver can't be the same:

```rust
impl Validate for Header {
    fn validate(&self) -> &Self {
        if self.sender.0 == self.receiver.0 {
            panic!("sender and receiver are the same");
        }
        self
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Panicking creates a trivial denial of service attack on the receiver: just send an invalid message.

Instead, return a `Result`, and define an `Error` type. Then you can panic in the sender using `expect`.

In the receiver you can just ignore the message. Since it's a threshold signing scheme, you can ignore some messages from some participants, and still succeed. But the messages from each sender must be optional, and the caller must put a timeout on receiving each message. (Otherwise the caller could hang waiting for a participant that has crashed or has an invalid message version.)

Reviewer: The simplest error type is just an enum with the different kinds of errors you expect. See Zebra for some good examples.

Author: Error type and such is done. We are not going to implement any timer at this stage.

Reviewer: Ok, so you'll just hang if one of the participants in the round goes down?
That should be documented.

Author: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/104d0f59223e9580fa51141307a4e397eedadf36

Then to create a valid `Header` we call:

```rust
let header = Validate::validate(&Header {
    ..
}).clone();
```

The receiver side will validate the header as:

```rust
msg.header.validate();
```

## Serialization/Deserialization

Each message struct needs to serialize to bytes representation before it is sent through the wire and must deserialize to the same struct (round trip) on the receiver side. We use `serde` and macro derivations (`Serialize` and `Deserialize`) to automatically implement where possible.

This will require deriving serde in several types defined in `frost.rs`. 
Manual implementation of serialization/deserialization will be located at a new mod `src/frost/serialize.rs`.

### Header

The `Header` part of the message is 4 bytes total:

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1     | msg_type   | u8
1     | version    | u8
1     | sender     | u8
1     | receiver   | u8

### Primitive types

`Payload`s use data types that we need to specify first. We have 3 primitive types inside the payload messages:

#### `Scalar`

> `Scalar` is a better name for `jubjub::Fr` and this is a `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/fr.rs#L16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scalar` is an alias for `jubjub::Fr` and this is a `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/fr.rs#L16
```

#### `VerificationKey<SpendAuth>`

Defined in `verification_key.rs` it consist of 1 `ExtendedPoint` and 1 `VerificationKeyBytes` which is also defined in the same file and consist of 1 `[u8; 32]`.

#### `Signature<SpendAuth>`

Defined in `signature.rs` consist of 2 `[u8; 32]` arrays.

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
256    | secret_key  | Scalar
1280*n | commitments | [Commitment; n]
1280+32| group_public| VerificationKey<SpendAuth>

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1280  | hiding     | ExtendedPoint
1280  | binding    | ExtendedPoint

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes      | Field name     | Data type
-----------|----------------|-----------
1+(1280*n) | signing_package| u8 [Commitment; n]

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
256   | signature  | Scalar

#### `MsgFinalSignature`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------

> 64    | signature  | Signature<SpendAuth>

Reviewer: What is the byte order of all these multi-byte fields?
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness

Is the byte order applied to their components, or to the entire field?
For example, for some byte orders, the serialization of a `[u64; 4]` and a `[u256; 1]` are different, even though they both have 256 bytes.

Reviewer: @dconnolly might be able to help you here.

Author: Everything will be in little-endian order unless specified otherwise. I added a note about this https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/1ee805987c24d83231a5f20aa8313d09a1ccf48f

Reviewer: Is the byte order applied to each sub-component, or to the entire field?

For example, for some byte orders, the serialization of a [u64; 4] and a [u256; 1] are different, even though they both have 256 bytes.

Reviewer: In general, serialization should work with `[u8; N]` arrays, and then describe how those arrays are turned into big integers. (For example: `[u8; 256]` becomes a little-Endi an `u256`.)

`[u64; 4]` is an arithmetic implementation detail, so it shouldn't appear in the serialization spec.

Reviewer: This is obsoleted by https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85#discussion_r629008634

# FROST messages

Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup using the [jubjub](https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub) curve.

## Motivation

Currently FROST library is complete for 2 round signatures with a dealer/aggregator setup.
This proposal is only considering that specific features, additions and upgrades will need to be made when DKG is implemented.

Assuming all participants have a FROST library available we need to define message structures in a way that data can be exchanged between participants. The proposal is a collection of data types so each side can do all the actions needed for a real life situation.

## Definitions

- `dealer`

> - `aggergator`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `aggregator`
```

```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
// Dealer must send this message with initial data to each participant involved.
// With this, the participant should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
//  the `sign()` function.
// `public_key` can be calculated from the `secret_key`.
// from `secret_key`.
struct MsgDealerBroadcast {
    // The secret key as a frost::Scalar.
    secret_key: frost::Scalar,
    // Commitments for the signer as jubjub::AffinePoint.
    commitment: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The point and verification bytes needed to generate the group public key
    group_public: (jubjub::AffinePoint, [u8; 32]),
}

// Each signer participant send to the aggregator the 2 points
//  needed for commitment building.
struct MsgCommitments {
    // The hiding Point.
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The binding Point.
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

// The aggergator decide what message is going to be signed and
// send it to each participant with all the commitments collected.
struct MsgSigningPackage {
    // The message to be signed as bytes
    message: &'static [u8],
    // The collected unpacked commitments for each signer

>     commitments: Vec<(u8, jubjub::AffinePoint, jubjub::AffinePoint),

Reviewer 2: I think we might need to specify the size of the vector (or even use a raw structure instead), similarly to the size of the message to be signed, so that the receiver knows how many bytes they should expect.

Reviewer 2: (The ">" symbol is missing at the end.)

Each `Fq` needed to form a `jubjub::ExtendedPoint` are `Scalar`s of `bls12_381` crate. Scalar here is `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L16

For message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice as they are shorter in bytes, they are formed of 2 `jubjub::Fq` instead of 5: https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L70-L73

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
256    | secret_key  | Scalar
512    | commitments | AffinePoint
256+32 | group_public| (AffinePoint, [u8; 32])

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
512   | hiding     | AffinePoint
512   | binding    | AffinePoint

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes      | Field name     | Data type
-----------|----------------|-----------

> ?          | message        | [u8]
> 1+256+256  | commitments    | (u8, AffinePoint, AffinePoint)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1+256+256        | commitments      | (u8, AffinePoint, AffinePoint)
u64              | message_length   | [u8]
message_length.  | message          | [u8]
```

//  the `sign()` function.
// `public_key` can be calculated from the `secret_key`.
// from `secret_key`.
struct MsgDealerBroadcast {
    // The secret key as a frost::Scalar.
    secret_key: frost::Scalar,
    // Commitments for the signer as jubjub::AffinePoint.
    commitment: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The point and verification bytes needed to generate the group public key
    group_public: (jubjub::AffinePoint, [u8; 32]),
}

// Each signer participant send to the aggregator the 2 points
//  needed for commitment building.
struct MsgCommitments {
    // The hiding Point.
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The binding Point.
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

// The aggergator decide what message is going to be signed and
// send it to each participant with all the commitments collected.
struct MsgSigningPackage {
    // The number of participants.
    participants: u8,
    // The collected unpacked commitments for each signer
    commitments: Vec<(u8, jubjub::AffinePoint, jubjub::AffinePoint)>,
    // The lenght of the message
    message_length: u64,
    // The message to be signed as bytes

>     message: &'static [u8],

Reviewer: However, you *do* need to specify how the length is serialized and deserialized.

>     message: &'static [u8],

Author: When you are reading the bytes how do you know when to stop before another field starts if you don't have a length specified ?

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. This is a structure with 5 `jubjub::Fq`s as defined in https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L128-L134

Each `Fq` needed to form a `jubjub::ExtendedPoint` are `Scalar`s of `bls12_381` crate. Scalar here is `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L16

For message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice as they are shorter in bytes, they are formed of 2 `jubjub::Fq` instead of 5: https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L70-L73

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
256    | secret_key  | Scalar
512    | commitments | AffinePoint

> 256+32 | group_public| (AffinePoint, [u8; 32])

Reviewer: Would it be easier to split this tuple into two named fields?
Or to specify a `GroupPublic` sub-type with two named fields?

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
512   | hiding     | AffinePoint
512   | binding    | AffinePoint

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
-----------------------|----------------|-----------
1                      | participants   | u8

> (1+256+256)*partipants | commitments    | Vec<(u8, AffinePoint, AffinePoint)>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(1+256+256)*participants | commitments    | Vec<(u8, AffinePoint, AffinePoint)>
```

Reviewer: Would it be easier to split this tuple into three named fields?
Or to specify a `Participant` sub-type with three named fields?

> 512    | commitments | AffinePoint
> 256+32 | group_public| (AffinePoint, [u8; 32])
> 
> #### `MsgCommitments`
> 
> Bytes | Field name | Data type
> ------|------------|-----------
> 512   | hiding     | AffinePoint
> 512   | binding    | AffinePoint
> 
> #### `MsgSigningPackage`
> 
> Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
> -----------------------|----------------|-----------
> 1                      | participants   | u8
> (1+256+256)*partipants | commitments    | Vec<(u8, AffinePoint, AffinePoint)>

Reviewer: It looks like some of your `AffinePoint`s might actually be `[AffinePoint; 2]`.

`(AffinePoint, AffinePoint)` is a bit harder to read, typically Rust uses an array instead.

```suggestion
512    | commitments | [AffinePoint; 2]
256+32 | group_public| (AffinePoint, [u8; 32])

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
512   | hiding     | [AffinePoint; 2]
512   | binding    | [AffinePoint; 2]

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
-----------------------|----------------|-----------
1                      | participants   | u8
(1+256+256)*partipants | commitments    | Vec<(u8, [AffinePoint; 2])>
```

Author: I think this is a good idea in the places we have `(AffinePoint, AffinePoint)`. The suggestion change places where we just have only 1 `AffinePoint` like `hiding` and `binding` in `MsgCommitments`. We could change this 2 fields to 1 field and then use the array with 2 `AffinePoints` losing some clarity. Is that what you meant?

It seems incorrect to me to change those that only have 1 `AffinePoint` like `commitment`  in `MsgDealerBroadcast`, there is no need to double the size and we will actually have no data to place in the second position of the array.

Please note the commitment from `MsgDealerBroadcast` is `frost::Commitment`, this is just 1 `AffinePoint` while the commitment the receiver will build with `hiding` and `binding` in `MsgCommitments` are `frost::SigningCommitments`, this is 2 points and an index (we don't send the index as a field as it is already in the header of the message).

With that said, i will change the `commitments` field in `MsgSigningPackage` to the suggested array of 2 `AffinePoint`s as it is the only place i think the suggestion will fit.

Author: Changed everything that had a tuple to a new type in https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/dc902355a482f72220dae24b63454c9f146bc94a

Reviewer: That's good, but if the 2 points have specific names in the protocol, we should probably use those names instead.

Otherwise we'll have to specify the order of serialization somewhere else.

Reviewer: It looks like this change is now complete.

8                      | message_length | u64
message_length         | message        | [u8]

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
256   | signature  | Scalar

#### `MsgFinalSignature`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------

> 64    | signature  | ([u8; 32], [u8; 32])

Reviewer: Would it be easier to split this tuple into two named fields?
Or to specify a `Signature` sub-type with two named fields?

Reviewer 4: That might be good, as a signature consists of a `Commitment` and a `Response` which can be their own named types.

Author: `Signature` is https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/frost-messages/src/signature.rs#L17-L21

Unsure what the `s_bytes` and `r_bytes` mean. I created a type but will be good to add documentation to the fields: 

```rust
// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggegator 
// to any participant.
struct MsgFinalSignature {
    // Bytes needed to build the frost::Signature
    final_signature: FinalSignature,
}

// Final RedJubJub signature the aggergator has created.
struct FinalSignature {
    //
    r_bytes: [u8; 32],
    //
    s_bytes: [u8; 32],
}
```

# FROST messages

Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup using the [jubjub](https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub) curve.

## Motivation

Currently FROST library is complete for 2 round signatures with a dealer/aggregator setup.
This proposal is only considering that specific features, additions and upgrades will need to be made when DKG is implemented.

Assuming all participants have a FROST library available we need to define message structures in a way that data can be exchanged between participants. The proposal is a collection of data types so each side can do all the actions needed for a real life situation.

## Definitions

- `dealer`
- `aggregator`
- `signer`
- `nonce`
- `commitment`
- 

## Guide-level explanation

We propose a message separated in 2 parts, a header and a payload:

```rust
struct Message {
    header: Header,
    payload: Payload,
}
```

`Header` will look as follows:

```rust
struct Header {
    msg_type: MsgType,
    version: MsgVersion,
    sender: Participant,

>     receiver: Participant, 

Author: Changed https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/e14631b355f9ba96bf07a7620502c872e51bf495

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

struct MsgVersion(u8);

struct Participant(u8);
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// Dealer must send this message with initial data to each participant involved.
/// With this, the participant should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
///  the `sign()` function.
/// `public_key` can be calculated from the `secret_key`.
struct MsgDealerBroadcast {
    /// The secret key as a frost::Scalar.
    secret_key: frost::Scalar,
    /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
    commitment: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group.
    group_public: GroupPublic,
}

/// The point and verification bytes needed to generate the group public key
struct GroupPublic {
    /// The point

>     point: jubjub::AffinePoint,

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if we actually need this field. I think @dconnolly might know. Wouldn't the `bytes` field not be sufficient?

Reviewer 2: Since the type of `group_public` is `VerificationKey` and that can be build from `[u8; 32]`.

    /// The verification bytes

>     bytes: [u8; 32],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    verification_bytes: [u8; 32],
```

>     bytes: [u8; 32],

Reviewer: Let's give this field a more specific name, once we know which fields we need in this struct.

}

/// Each signer participant send to the aggregator the 2 points
///  needed for commitment building.
struct MsgCommitments {
    /// The commitment the signer is sending.

>     commitment: Commitment,

Reviewer 2: These commitments correspond to the FROST preprocessing protocol described in Figure 2 in the paper though. These are commitments to the single-use nonces called `d` and `e` in the paper and `hiding` and `binding` in the implementation. These are different from those sent by the trusted dealer --- the dealer sends commitments to polynomial coefficients. There are multiple types of "commitments" in the paper (and therefore in the implementation as well), so it might be confusing.

>     commitment: Commitment,

Reviewer 2: The FROST preprocessing protocol (presented in Figure 2) puts the commitments into a list, that's why I suggested a vector. If the participants send a vector of commitments, the signer can cache them. This would allow single-round signing, while sending only one pair of commitments (hiding and binding) would enforce two-round signing. I'm not sure which one we actually intend to support now.

>     commitment: Commitment,

Reviewer: Preprocessing involves stored state, so it will complicate the implementation.
Let's focus on the simple two round signing protocol for now?

We can add support for single-round signing and cached state later. (We'll need a new protocol version and message type, but that's ok.)

There might also be some security or reliability implications of cached state, which we should work through in a separate design. (How do we make sure the cached state is used for the right signatures? What if participants get out of sync? How do we restart a round when we run out of cached state? How can we test all this?)

>     commitment: Commitment,

Reviewer 2: Great questions. I think we can focus on the two round signing for now. 

I'd say the users of FROST can handle the state by themselves since they have to store their IDs and keys already. They also have to keep track of which signing group the IDs and keys are associated with since one user can participate in multiple groups. (This can be trivially done since each group is uniquely identified by its public key.)

Here's my attempt to answer some of the questions:
> - How do we make sure the cached state is used for the right signatures?

Notice that the aggregator includes the commitments into each `SigningPackage` so that the participants can check the commitments.

> - What if participants get out of sync?
> - How do we restart a round when we run out of cached state?

I think this the users can handle this by themselves too.

}

/// A commitment specified by two AffinePoints.
struct Commitment {
    /// The hiding Point.
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    /// The binding Point.
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

/// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and
/// sends it to each participant with all the commitments collected.
struct MsgSigningPackage {

>     /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
>     ///  unique participant identifiers
>     commitments: HashMap<ParticipantID, Commitment>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers.
    ///
    /// Messages that contain duplicate `ParticipantID`s are invalid.
    commitments: HashMap<ParticipantID, Commitment>,
```

### Header

The `Header` part of the message is 4 bytes total:

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1     | msg_type   | u8
1     | version    | u8
1     | sender     | u8
1     | receiver   | u8

### Primitive types

`Payload`s use data types that we need to specify first. We have 2 primitive types inside the payload messages:

#### `Scalar`

`Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr`. We use `Scalar::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L252

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

> 

Author: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/b8abdf5dad6b1fbb91bca4dc5dd2e3e6b02eeabb

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
32     | secret_key  | Scalar
32     | commitments | AffinePoint
32+32  | group_public| GroupPublic

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name | Data type
--------|------------|-----------
32+32   | commitment | Commitment

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
-----------------------|----------------|-----------
1                      | participants   | u8

> (1+32+32)*partipants   | commitments    | HashMap<Participant, Commitment>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(1+32+32)*participants   | commitments    | HashMap<Participant, Commitment>
```

> 8                      | message_length | u64

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we limit the size of the messages to at most 4 GB by using u32 instead of u64? Using u64 allows the participants to set intractable lengths.

Reviewer: Good question!

In general, languages and protocols are moving away from hard-coded 4GB data limits. For example, Rust uses `usize` (native pointer size) for memory sizes, and `u64` for network or file sizes.

Some threshold signature use-cases will involve "messages" that are larger than 4GB. For example, open-source software distribution would benefit from threshold signatures. And a full Debian distribution is 12.5 GB.

But for other protocols, such as Zcash, 1 GB would be an intractable length. So we can't really use integer sizes to limit message sizes - they're too coarse.

Here's what I'd recommend:
1. use `u64` in the generic protocol
2. add an implementation-specific message size limit in the `MsgSigningPackage::validate` method
3. add a "not included" note that each protocol will have its own message size limit

For Zcash, the message size limit would be 2 MB, because Zcash network messages, blocks, and transactions are limited to 2 MB.

But for modern Bitcoin, it might be 32 MB, because that's their network message size limit.

message_length         | message        | Vec<u8>

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32    | signature  | Scalar

#### `MsgFinalSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------
32+32 | final_signature  | FinalSignature

## Not included

The following are a few things this RFC is not considering:

- After the dealer sends the initial `MsgDealerBroadcast` to all the participants, the aggregator must wait for signers to send the second message `MsgCommitments`. There is no timeout for this but only after the aggregator received all the commitments the process can continue. These restrictions and event waiting are not detailed in this RFC.
- This implementation considers not only communications between computer devices in the internet but allows the process to be done by other channels, the lack of timers can result in participants waiting forever for a message. It is the participants business to deal with this and other similars.
- The RFC does not describe a Service but just message structure and serialization.
- Messages larger than 4 GB are not supported on 32-bit platforms.

> 

Author: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/300e503a8888d823440ce5f110f6b5c423734c6e

- `signer`
- `nonce`
- `commitment`
- 

## Guide-level explanation

We propose a message separated in 2 parts, a header and a payload:

```rust
struct Message {
    header: Header,
    payload: Payload,
}
```

`Header` will look as follows:

```rust
struct Header {
    msg_type: MsgType,
    version: MsgVersion,
    sender: Participant,
    receiver: Participant, 
}
```

While `Payload` will be defined as:

```rust
enum Payload {
    DealerBroadcast(MsgDealerBroadcast),
    Commitments(MsgCommitments),
    SigningPackage(MsgSigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(MsgSignatureShare),
    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

struct MsgVersion(u8);

struct Participant(u8);
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust

> // Dealer must send this message with initial data to each participant involved.

Reviewer: Please change all these comments to doc-comments, so they appear in the rustdoc output.

Doc comments start with 3 slashes:
```rust
/// doc comment
```

// With this, the participant should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
//  the `sign()` function.

> // `public_key` can be calculated from the `secret_key`.
> // from `secret_key`.

Reviewer: Typo
```suggestion
// `public_key` can be calculated from the `secret_key`.
```

> struct MsgVersion(u8);
> 
> struct ParticipantID(u8);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
struct MsgVersion(u8);

/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
struct ParticipantId(u8);
```

>     /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::Share.value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
```

struct MsgDealerBroadcast {
    // The secret key as a frost::Scalar.
    secret_key: frost::Scalar,
    // Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
    commitment: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The public signing key that represents the entire group.
    group_public: GroupPublic,
}

// The point and verification bytes needed to generate the group public key
struct GroupPublic {
    // The point
    point: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The verification bytes
    bytes: [u8; 32],
}

// Each signer participant send to the aggregator the 2 points
//  needed for commitment building.
struct MsgCommitments {
    commitment: Commitment,
}

// A commitment specified by two AffinePoints.
struct Commitment {
    // The hiding Point.
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    // The binding Point.
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

> // The aggergator decide what message is going to be signed and
> // send it to each participant with all the commitments collected.

Reviewer: Spelling
```suggestion
// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and
// sends it to each participant with all the commitments collected.
```

struct MsgSigningPackage {
    // The number of participants.
    participants: u8,
    // The collected commitments for each signer

>     commitments: Vec<CollectedCommitments>,

Reviewer: Also there is a typo here:
```suggestion
    commitments: Vec<CollectedCommitment>,
```

>     commitments: Vec<CollectedCommitments>,

Reviewer: Also a `Vec<CollectedCommitment { Participant, Commitment }>` might not be the best data structure here.

How can you make sure that each participant id is unique?

In Rust we normally use a `HashMap<Participant, Commitment>`, which makes sure each `Participant` value can only appear once.

>     // The lenght of the message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // The length of the message
```

    message_length: u64,
    // The message to be signed as bytes
    message: &'static [u8],
}

// The aggergator collected commitments for each signer in the
//  scheme.
struct CollectedCommitment {

>     // Signer commitment
>     signer_id: u8,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // The signer's participant identifier
    signer_id: Participant,
```

    // Commitment for this signer
    commitment: Commitment,
}

> // Each signer send the signatures to the agregator who is going to collect them 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Each signer sends their signatures to the aggregator who is going to collect them 
```

// and generate a final spend signature.
struct MsgSignatureShare {
    // The signature to be shared as a Scalar
    signature: frost::Scalar,
}

// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggegator 
// to any participant.
struct MsgFinalSignature {
    // Bytes needed to build the frost::Signature
    final_signature: FinalSignature,
}

> // Final RedJubJub signature the aggergator has created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Final RedJubJub signature the aggregator has created.
```

```rust
if let Ok(header) = msg.header.validate() {
    ..
}
```

## Serialization/Deserialization

Each message struct needs to serialize to bytes representation before it is sent through the wire and must deserialize to the same struct (round trip) on the receiver side. We use `serde` and macro derivations (`Serialize` and `Deserialize`) to automatically implement where possible.

This will require deriving serde in several types defined in `frost.rs`. 
Manual implementation of serialization/deserialization will be located at a new mod `src/frost/serialize.rs`.

### Byte order

Each byte chunk specified below is in little-endian order unless is specified otherwise.

### Header

The `Header` part of the message is 4 bytes total:

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1     | msg_type   | u8
1     | version    | u8
1     | sender     | u8
1     | receiver   | u8

### Primitive types

`Payload`s use data types that we need to specify first. We have 2 primitive types inside the payload messages:

> #### `Scalar`
> 
> `Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr` and this is a `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/fr.rs#L16
> 
> #### `AffinePoint`
> 
> Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. This is a structure with 5 `jubjub::Fq`s as defined in https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L128-L134
> 
> Each `Fq` needed to form a `jubjub::ExtendedPoint` are `Scalar`s of `bls12_381` crate. Scalar here is `[u64; 4]` as documented in https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L16
> 
> For message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice as they are shorter in bytes, they are formed of 2 `jubjub::Fq` instead of 5: https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L70-L73
> 
> Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:
> 
> https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
> https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

Reviewer: Let's use the existing `to_bytes` functions for scalar and point serialization.

These functions reduce scalars and points to a 32-byte representation, then serialize them in little-endian order.

This changes the `Scalar` and `AffinePoint` serialized sizes to 32.

```suggestion
#### `Scalar`

`Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr`. We use `Scalar::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L252

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443
```

Author: This is great, we reduced the sizes of the messages by a lot. Thank you.

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

> #### `MsgDealerBroadcast`
> 
> Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
> -------|-------------|-----------
> 256    | secret_key  | Scalar
> 512    | commitments | AffinePoint
> 512+32 | group_public| GroupPublic
> 
> #### `MsgCommitments`
> 
> Bytes   | Field name | Data type
> --------|------------|-----------
> 512+512 | commitment | Commitment
> 
> #### `MsgSigningPackage`
> 
> Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
> -----------------------|----------------|-----------
> 1                      | participants   | u8
> (1+1024)*partipants    | commitments    | Vec<CollectedCommitments>
> 8                      | message_length | u64
> message_length         | message        | [u8]
> 
> #### `SignatureShare`
> 
> Bytes | Field name | Data type
> ------|------------|-----------
> 256   | signature  | Scalar
> 
> #### `MsgFinalSignature`
> 
> Bytes | Field name       | Data type
> ------|------------------|-----------
> 64    | final_signature  | FinalSignature

Reviewer: Change serialized sizes to 32 for `Scalar` and 32 for `AffinePoint`, and fix some other typos:
```suggestion
#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes  | Field name  | Data type
-------|-------------|-----------
32       | secret_key  | Scalar
32       | commitments | AffinePoint
32+32 | group_public | GroupPublic

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name | Data type
--------|------------|-----------
32+32  | commitment | Commitment

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name     | Data type
-----------------------|----------------|-----------
1                      | participants   | u8
(1+32+32)*participants    | commitments    | Vec<CollectedCommitment>
8                      | message_length | u64
message_length         | message        | [u8]

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32      | signature  | Scalar

#### `MsgFinalSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------
32+32 | final_signature  | FinalSignature
```

> `Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr`. We use `Scalar::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L252
> 
> #### `AffinePoint`
> 
> Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.
> 
> Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:
> 
> https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
> https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E
> 
> We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443
> 
> Similarly, `VerificationKey`s can be serialized using `into::<[u8;32]>`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L86

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr`. We use `Scalar::to_bytes` and `Scalar::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L252

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` and `AffinePoint::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

Similarly, `VerificationKey`s can be serialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L86
```

## Not included

The following are a few things this RFC is not considering:

- After the dealer sends the initial `MsgDealerBroadcast` to all the participants, the aggregator must wait for signers to send the second message `MsgCommitments`. There is no timeout for this but only after the aggregator received all the commitments the process can continue. These restrictions and event waiting are not detailed in this RFC.
- This implementation considers not only communications between computer devices in the internet but allows the process to be done by other channels, the lack of timers can result in participants waiting forever for a message. It is the participants business to deal with this and other similars.
- The RFC does not describe a Service but just message structure and serialization.

> 

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we limit the size of the messages to at most 4 GB by using u32 instead of u64? Using u64 allows the participants to set intractable lengths.

> - Implementations should validate that message lengths are lower than protocol-specific maximum length, then allocate message memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Implementations should validate that message lengths are lower than a protocol-specific maximum length, then allocate message memory.
```

## Testing plan

> - Create a happy path unit test similar to https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/frost-messages/tests/frost.rs#L7 and:
>   - Make messages on each step.
>   - Simulate send/receive.
>   - Test round trip serialization/deserialization on each message.
> - Create property tests for each message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test Vectors

#### Conversion on Test Vectors

- Test conversion from `frost` to `message` on a test vector
    1. Implement the Rust `message` struct
    2. Implement conversion from and to the `frost` type
    3. Do a round-trip test from `frost` to `message` on a test vector
- Test conversion from `message` to bytes on a test vector
    1. Implement conversion from and to the `message` type
    2. Do a round-trip test from `message` to bytes on a test vector

#### Signing Rounds on Test Vectors

- Test signing using `frost` types on a test vector
    1. Implement a single round of `frost` signing using a test vector
- Test signing using `message` types on a test vector
- Test signing using byte vectors on a test vector

### Property Tests

#### Conversion Property Tests

- Create property tests for each message
    - Test round-trip conversion from `frost` to `message` types
    - Test round-trip serialization and deserialization for each `message` type

#### Signing Round Property Tests
    
- Create property tests for signing rounds
    - Test a signing round with `frost` types
    - Test a signing round with `message` types
    - Test a signing round with byte vectors
```

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` and `AffinePoint::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

Similarly, `VerificationKey`s can be serialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L86

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `MsgDealerBroadcast`

Bytes           | Field name       | Data type
----------------|------------------|-----------
32              | secret_share     | Scalar
1               | participants     | u8
32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
32              | group_public     | AffinePoint

#### `MsgCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name          | Data type
--------|---------------------|-----------

> 32+32   | signing_commitments | SigningCommitments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
32   | hiding | AffinePoint
32   | binding | AffinePoint
```

#### `MsgSigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name         | Data type
-----------------------|--------------------|-----------
1                      | participants       | u8
(1+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantID, SigningCommitments>
8                      | message_length     | u64
message_length         | message            | Vec\<u8\>

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32    | signature  | Scalar

#### `MsgFinalSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------

> 32    | group_commitment | group_commitment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
32    | group_commitment | AffinePoint
```

    header: Header,
    payload: Payload,
}
```

`Header` will look as follows:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize the common header fields for every message.
///
/// Note: the `msg_type` is derived from the `payload` enum variant.
struct Header {
    version: MsgVersion,
    sender: ParticipantID,
    receiver: ParticipantID,
}
```

While `Payload` will be defined as:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize the payload for a message.
enum Payload {
    DealerBroadcast(MsgDealerBroadcast),
    Commitments(MsgCommitments),
    SigningPackage(MsgSigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(MsgSignatureShare),
    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
/// The numeric values used to identify each `Payload` variant during serialization.
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

> /// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
> struct MsgVersion(u8);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
struct MsgVersion(u8);

const BASIC_SERIALIZATION: MsgVersion = MsgVersion(0);
```

> /// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
> struct ParticipantId(u8);

Reviewer: Let's assign specific IDs to the dealer and aggregator.

Based on this audit recommendation:

> 3.5  Null ID support
> 
> When performing Shamir secret sharing, a polynomial `f(x)` is used to generate each party’s share of the secret. The actual secret is `f(0)` and the party with ID `i` will be given a share with value `f(i)`. Since a DKG may be implemented in the future, we recommend that the ID `0` be declared invalid.

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/main/zcash-frost-audit-report-20210323.pdf#d

```suggestion
/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
///
/// In the `frost` module, participant ID `0` should be invalid.
/// But in serialization, we want participants to be indexed from `0..n`,
/// where `n` is the number of participants.
/// This helps us look up their shares and commitments in serialized arrays.
/// In serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator to IDs `254` and `255`.
///
/// "When performing Shamir secret sharing, a polynomial `f(x)` is used to generate each party’s share of the secret. The actual secret is `f(0)` and the party with ID `i` will be given a share with value `f(i)`. Since a DKG may be implemented in the future, we recommend that the ID `0` be declared invalid."
/// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/main/zcash-frost-audit-report-20210323.pdf#d
enum ParticipantId {
    Signer(u8),
    Dealer,
    Aggregator,
}

/// The maximum number of participants in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
const MAX_SERIALIZATION_PARTICIPANTS: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;
```

}
```

And we implement where needed. For example, in the header, sender and receiver can't be the same:

```rust
impl Validate for Header {
    fn validate(&self) -> Result<&Self, MsgErr> {
        if self.sender.0 == self.receiver.0 {
            return Err(MsgErr::SameSenderAndReceiver);
        }
        Ok(self)
    }
}
```

This will require to have validation error messages as:

```rust
use thiserror::Error;

#[derive(Clone, Error, Debug)]
pub enum MsgErr {
    #[error("sender and receiver are the same")]
    SameSenderAndReceiver,
}
```

Then to create a valid `Header` in the sender side we call:

```rust
let header = Validate::validate(&Header {
    ..
}).expect("a valid header");
```

The receiver side will validate the header using the same method. Instead of panicking the error can be ignored to don't crash and keep waiting for other (potentially valid) messages.

```rust
if let Ok(header) = msg.header.validate() {
    ..
}
```

### Rules

The following rules must be implemented:

#### Header

- `msg_type` must be a known `MsgType` value.
- `version` must be a supported version.
- `sender` and `receiver` can't be the same.

> -  `sender` and `receiver` must be less than the maximum number of participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  If `sender` and `receiver` are a `ParticipantId::Signer`, they must be less than the number of participants in this round.
- The `ParticipantId` variants of `sender` and `receiver` must match the message type.
```

#### Payloads

- Each jubjub type must be validated during deserialization.

> - `share_commitments`: For each round, the maximum number of participants is set by the length of `share_commitments`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `share_commitments`: The number of participants in each round is set by the length of `share_commitments`.
```

- `signing_commitments`:
    - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantID`s are invalid
    - Signing packages that contain missing `ParticipantID`s are invalid
        - TODO: check if missing participants are allowed

>     - The length of `signing_commitments` must be less than or equal to the length of the `share_commitments` for this round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The length of `signing_commitments` must be less than or equal to the number of participants in this round.
```

enum Payload {
    DealerBroadcast(MsgDealerBroadcast),
    Commitments(MsgCommitments),
    SigningPackage(MsgSigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(MsgSignatureShare),
    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
/// The numeric values used to identify each `Payload` variant during serialization.
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
struct MsgVersion(u8);

const BASIC_FROST_SERIALIZATION: MsgVersion = MsgVersion(0);

/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
struct ParticipantId(u8);
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize `frost::SharePackage`.
///

> /// Dealer must send this message with initial data to each participant involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// Dealer must send this message with initial data to each signer for this round.
```

> /// With this, the participant should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// With this, the signer should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
```

/// the `sign()` function.
///
/// Note: `frost::SharePackage.public` can be calculated from `secret_share`.
struct messages::SharePackage {
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
    secret_share: frost::Scalar,
    /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
    /// A set of commitments to the coefficients (which themselves are scalars)
    ///  for a secret polynomial _f_: `frost::SharePackage.share.commitment`
    share_commitment: Vec<jubjub::AffinePoint>,
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
    ///  `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
    group_public: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningCommitments`.

> ///

Reviewer: ```suggestion
///
/// Each signer must send this message to the aggregator.
```

/// A signing commitment from the first round of the signing protocol.
struct messages::SigningCommitments {
    /// The hiding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.hiding`
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    /// The binding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.binding`
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningPackage`.
///
/// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and

> /// sends it to each participant with all the commitments collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// sends it to each signer with all the commitments collected.
```

struct messages::SigningPackage {
    /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`
    message: Vec<u8>,
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantID`s are invalid.
    signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantID, SigningCommitments>,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SignatureShare`.
///
/// Each signer sends their signatures to the aggregator who is going to collect them
///  and generate a final spend signature.
struct messages::SignatureShare {
     /// This participant's signature over the message:
     ///  `frost::SignatureShare.signature`
    signature: frost::Scalar,
}

/// The data required to serialize a successful output from `frost::aggregate()`.
///

> /// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggregator to any participant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggregator to all signers.
```

    SigningPackage(MsgSigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(MsgSignatureShare),
    FinalSignature(MsgFinalSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
/// The numeric values used to identify each `Payload` variant during serialization.
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    DealerBroadcast,
    Commitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    FinalSignature,
}

/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
struct MsgVersion(u8);

const BASIC_FROST_SERIALIZATION: MsgVersion = MsgVersion(0);

/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
///
/// In the `frost` module, participant ID `0` should be invalid.
/// But in serialization, we want participants to be indexed from `0..n`,
/// where `n` is the number of participants.
/// This helps us look up their shares and commitments in serialized arrays.

> /// So in serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator to IDs `254` and `255`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// So in serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator the highest IDs,
/// and mark those IDs as invalid for signers.
```

///
/// "When performing Shamir secret sharing, a polynomial `f(x)` is used to generate each party’s share of the secret. The actual secret is `f(0)` and the party with ID `i` will be given a share with value `f(i)`. Since a DKG may be implemented in the future, we recommend that the ID `0` be declared invalid."
/// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/main/zcash-frost-audit-report-20210323.pdf#d
enum ParticipantId {

>     Signer(u8),
>     Dealer,
>     Aggregator,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// A serialized participant ID for a signer.
    ///
    /// Must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
    Signer(u8),
    /// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
    Dealer,
    /// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
    Aggregator,
```

}

> /// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
> ///
> /// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
> const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
const DEALER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 1;

/// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
const AGGREGATOR_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX;

/// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;
```

```rust
pub trait Validate {
    fn validate(&self) -> Result<&Self, MsgErr>;
}
```

And we implement where needed. For example, in the header, sender and receiver can't be the same:

```rust
impl Validate for Header {
    fn validate(&self) -> Result<&Self, MsgErr> {
        if self.sender.0 == self.receiver.0 {
            return Err(MsgErr::SameSenderAndReceiver);
        }
        Ok(self)
    }
}
```

This will require to have validation error messages as:

```rust
use thiserror::Error;

#[derive(Clone, Error, Debug)]
pub enum MsgErr {
    #[error("sender and receiver are the same")]
    SameSenderAndReceiver,
}
```

Then to create a valid `Header` in the sender side we call:

```rust
let header = Validate::validate(&Header {
    ..
}).expect("a valid header");
```

The receiver side will validate the header using the same method. Instead of panicking the error can be ignored to don't crash and keep waiting for other (potentially valid) messages.

```rust
if let Ok(header) = msg.header.validate() {
    ..
}
```

### Rules

The following rules must be implemented:

#### Header

> - `msg_type` must be a known `MsgType` value.

Author: I think we can remove this rule as we don't have this field any more in the rust side. We can add this as a note in serialization section, as it needs to be implemented in the deserialization code.

Reviewer: Sure, go for it!

- `version` must be a supported version.
- `sender` and `receiver` can't be the same.

> -  If `sender` and `receiver` are a `ParticipantId::Signer`, they must be less than the number of participants in this round.

Author: I can't see how we are going to implement this and other rules that deal with the number of participants.

We don't know the number of participants on every message and we don't keep track of previous messages sent or received. We can just check that the `sender` and the `receiver` are lower or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.

Author: Check https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/95 for clarity on how the rules are implemented and what do we have available at the validation point.

Reviewer: > We don't know the number of participants on every message and we don't keep track of previous messages sent or received.

We have two options here:
1. Create a `ValidationState` struct to hold the number of participants in this round, and pass it to every validation method
2. Declare the rules that depend on the number of participants out of scope for this implementation, and move them to the `Not included` section

I suggest that we do `2`, because the purpose of this implementation is to demonstrate serialization. That kind of state tracking is better done by an application.

> We can just check that the `sender` and the `receiver` are lower or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.

This rule should be enforced by deserialization into `ParticipantId`. The 2 values greater than `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID` are assigned to the `Dealer` and `Aggregator` variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The `ParticipantId` variants of `sender` and `receiver` must match the message type.

#### Payloads

- Each jubjub type must be validated during deserialization.

> - `share_commitments`: The number of participants in each round is set by the length of `share_commitments`.
>     - The number of participants in each round must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
> - `signing_commitments`:
>     - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid
>     - Signing packages that contain missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid
>         - TODO: check if missing participants are allowed
>     - The length of `signing_commitments` must be less than or equal to the number of participants in this round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `share_commitments`: length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
- `signing_commitments`:
    - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
    - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid
    - Signing packages that contain missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid
        - TODO: check if missing participants are allowed
```

----------------|------------------|-----------
32              | secret_share     | Scalar
1               | participants     | u8
32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
32              | group_public     | AffinePoint

#### `SigningCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name          | Data type
--------|---------------------|-----------
32   | hiding | AffinePoint
32   | binding | AffinePoint

#### `SigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name         | Data type
-----------------------|--------------------|-----------
8                      | message_length     | u64
message_length         | message            | Vec\<u8\>
1                      | participants       | u8
(1+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32    | signature  | Scalar

#### `AggregateSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------
32    | group_commitment | AffinePoint
32    | schnorr_signature| Scalar

## Not included

The following are a few things this RFC is not considering:

> - After the dealer sends the initial `SharePackage` to all the participants, the aggregator must wait for signers to send the second message `SigningCommitments`. There is no timeout for this but only after the aggregator received all the commitments the process can continue. These restrictions and event waiting are not detailed in this RFC.
> - This implementation considers not only communications between computer devices in the internet but allows the process to be done by other channels, the lack of timers can result in participants waiting forever for a message. It is the participants business to deal with this and other similars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Applications using this serialization should handle missing messages using timeouts or similar protocol-specific mechanisms.
    - This is particularly important for `SigningPackage`s, which only need a threshold of participants to continue.
```

> - The RFC does not describe a Service but just message structure and serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - The RFC does not describe a Service but just message structure and serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - After the dealer sends the initial `SharePackage` to all the participants, the aggregator must wait for signers to send the second message `SigningCommitments`. There is no timeout for this but only after the aggregator received all the commitments the process can continue. These restrictions and event waiting are not detailed in this RFC.
> - This implementation considers not only communications between computer devices in the internet but allows the process to be done by other channels, the lack of timers can result in participants waiting forever for a message. It is the participants business to deal with this and other similars.
> - The RFC does not describe a Service but just message structure and serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The RFC does not describe implementation-specific issues - it is focused on message structure and serialization.
- Implementations using this serialization should handle missing messages using timeouts or similar protocol-specific mechanisms.
    - This is particularly important for `SigningPackage`s, which only need a threshold of participants to continue.
```

- Messages larger than 4 GB are not supported on 32-bit platforms.
- Implementations should validate that message lengths are lower than a protocol-specific maximum length, then allocate message memory.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### State-Based Validation

The following validation rules should be checked by the implementation:

- `share_commitments`: The number of participants in each round is set by the length of `share_commitments`.
    - If `sender` and `receiver` are a `ParticipantId::Signer`, they must be less than the number of participants in this round.
    - The length of `signing_commitments` must be less than or equal to the number of participants in this round.

If the implementation knows the number of key shares, it should re-check all the validation rules involving `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID` using that lower limit.
```

    Aggregator,
}

/// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
const DEALER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 1;

/// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
const AGGREGATOR_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX;

/// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize `frost::SharePackage`.
///
/// The dealer sends this message to each signer for this round.
/// With this, the signer should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
/// the `sign()` function.
///
/// Note: `frost::SharePackage.public` can be calculated from `secret_share`.
struct messages::SharePackage {
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
    secret_share: frost::Scalar,
    /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
    /// A set of commitments to the coefficients (which themselves are scalars)
    /// for a secret polynomial _f_: `frost::SharePackage.share.commitment`
    share_commitment: Vec<jubjub::AffinePoint>,

>     /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
>     /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
>     group_public: jubjub::AffinePoint,

Reviewer: I think we need to change the type of `group_public` to `VerificationKey<SpendAuth>` throughout this design.

```suggestion
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
    /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
    group_public: jubjub::VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,
```

Reviewer: Or we should explain how to convert from `VerificationKey<SpendAuth>` to `AffinePoint` (or `Scalar`) and back in the serialization section.

We explain how to convert to bytes here: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/files#diff-eb4c7391aa1f02fd5c5b3a11c199bb7a6efe129fb024fc3f31ff1afbd04ee160R306
But that's not the same as converting to a point or scalar.

Reviewer 2: We were looking into that in this comment https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85#discussion_r629423342.

I think the correct way would be to use [u8; 32] instead of the `AffinePoint` because, as already mentioned, the `VerificationKey` can be built from [u8; 32] by this trait https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/4cec6f87b4e2a4ea58bc3353136c11aed1cba5c7/src/verification_key.rs#L114.

Author: Based in this 2 comments it seems this need to be `VerificationKey<SpendAuth>` in the rust side and `[u8; 32]` in the serialization side.

Author: I made changes for this at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/1f5f04f9c8107d0754124bf9c0c0fd31c1c5d605

The `Header` part of the message is 4 bytes total:

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1     | msg_type   | u8
1     | version    | u8
1     | sender     | u8
1     | receiver   | u8

### Primitive types

`Payload`s use data types that we need to specify first. We have 2 primitive types inside the payload messages:

#### `Scalar`

`Scalar` is a an alias for `jubjub::Fr`. We use `Scalar::to_bytes` and `Scalar::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/bls12_381/blob/main/src/scalar.rs#L252

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` and `AffinePoint::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

> Similarly, `VerificationKey`s can be serialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L86
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, `VerificationKey`s can be serialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L86

Multi-byte integers **must not** be used for serialization, because they have different byte orders on different platforms.

```

/// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/main/zcash-frost-audit-report-20210323.pdf#d
enum ParticipantId {
    /// A serialized participant ID for a signer.
    ///
    /// Must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
    Signer(u8),
    /// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
    Dealer,
    /// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
    Aggregator,
}

/// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
const DEALER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 1;

/// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
const AGGREGATOR_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX;

/// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize `frost::SharePackage`.
///
/// The dealer sends this message to each signer for this round.
/// With this, the signer should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
/// the `sign()` function.
///
/// Note: `frost::SharePackage.public` can be calculated from `secret_share`.
struct messages::SharePackage {

>     /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
>     secret_share: frost::Scalar,
>     /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
>     /// A set of commitments to the coefficients (which themselves are scalars)
>     /// for a secret polynomial _f_: `frost::SharePackage.share.commitment`
>     share_commitment: Vec<jubjub::AffinePoint>,
>     /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
>     /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
>     group_public: VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,

Reviewer: Put variable-length fields last:
```suggestion
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
    /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
    group_public: VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
    secret_share: frost::Scalar,
    /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
    /// A set of commitments to the coefficients (which themselves are scalars)
    /// for a secret polynomial _f_: `frost::SharePackage.share.commitment`
    share_commitment: Vec<jubjub::AffinePoint>,
```

}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningCommitments`.
///
/// Each signer must send this message to the aggregator.
/// A signing commitment from the first round of the signing protocol.
struct messages::SigningCommitments {
    /// The hiding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.hiding`
    hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
    /// The binding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.binding`
    binding: jubjub::AffinePoint,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningPackage`.
///
/// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and
/// sends it to each signer with all the commitments collected.
struct messages::SigningPackage {

>     /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`
>     message: Vec<u8>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`
    ///
    /// Each signer should perform protocol-specific verification on the message.
    message: Vec<u8>,
```

>     /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`
>     message: Vec<u8>,
>     /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
>     /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
>     ///
>     /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
>     signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
    signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,
    /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`.
    ///
    /// Each signer should perform protocol-specific verification on the message.
    message: Vec<u8>,
```

#### `AffinePoint`

Much of the math in FROST is done using `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. But for message exchange `jubjub::AffinePoint`s are a better choice, as their byte representation is smaller.

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` and `AffinePoint::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

#### VerificationKey

`VerificationKey<SpendAuth>`s can be serialized and deserialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L80-L90 and https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L114-L121.

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `SharePackage`

Bytes           | Field name       | Data type
----------------|------------------|-----------
32              | secret_share     | Scalar

> 1               | participants     | u8
> 32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
> 32              | group_public     | VerificationKey<SpendAuth>

Reviewer: Put variable-length fields last:
```suggestion
32              | group_public     | VerificationKey<SpendAuth>
1               | participants     | u8
32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
```

> 32              | secret_share     | Scalar
> 1               | participants     | u8
> 32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
> 32              | group_public     | VerificationKey<SpendAuth>

Reviewer: Put variable-length fields last:
```suggestion
32              | group_public     | VerificationKey<SpendAuth>
32              | secret_share     | Scalar
1               | participants     | u8
32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<AffinePoint\>
```

#### `SigningCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name          | Data type
--------|---------------------|-----------
32   | hiding | AffinePoint
32   | binding | AffinePoint

#### `SigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name         | Data type
-----------------------|--------------------|-----------

> 8                      | message_length     | u64
> message_length         | message            | Vec\<u8\>
> 1                      | participants       | u8
> (1+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1                      | participants       | u8
(1+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>
8                      | message_length     | u64
message_length         | message            | Vec\<u8\>
```

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32    | signature  | Scalar

#### `AggregateSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------
32    | group_commitment | AffinePoint
32    | schnorr_signature| Scalar

> ## Not included

Reviewer: TODO: Add a section on persistent key material
- which key material is safe to re-use?
- how do users serialize and de-serialize secret keys?

Reviewer: @oxarbitrage please make a ticket for this TODO before you merge.

Author: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/issues/113

# FROST messages

Proposes a message layout to exchange information between participants of a FROST setup using the [jubjub](https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub) curve.

## Motivation

> Currently FROST library is complete for 2 round signatures with a dealer/aggregator setup.
> This proposal is only considering that specific features, additions and upgrades will need to be made when DKG is implemented.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently FROST library is complete for 2 round signatures with a dealer/aggregator setup.
This proposal acknowledges that specific features, additions and upgrades will need to be made when DKG is implemented.
```

> Assuming all participants have a FROST library available we need to define message structures in a way that data can be exchanged between participants. The proposal is a collection of data types so each side can do all the actions needed for a real life situation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Assuming all participants have a FROST library available, we need to define message structures in a way that data can be exchanged between participants. The proposal is a collection of data types so each side can do all the actions needed for a real life situation.
```

## Definitions

- `dealer` - Participant who distributes the initial package to all the other participants.
- `aggregator` - Participant in charge of collecting all the signatures from the other participants and generating the final group signature.
- `signer` - Participant that will receive the initial package, sign and send the signature to the aggregator to receive the final group signature.

> Note: In this RFC we consider the above 3 participants to be different. `dealer` and `aggergator` have specific hard coded `ParticipantId`s so for example a `dealer` can't be a `signer`. This is not a protocol limitation but a specific rule introduced in this document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: In this RFC we consider the above 3 participants to be different. `dealer` and `aggregator` have specific hard coded `ParticipantId`s, so for example a `dealer` can't be a `signer`. This is not a protocol limitation but a specific rule introduced in this document.
```

## Guide-level explanation

We propose a message separated in 2 parts, a header and a payload:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize a frost message.
struct Message {
    header: Header,
    payload: Payload,
}
```

`Header` will look as follows:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize the common header fields for every message.
///
/// Note: the `msg_type` is derived from the `payload` enum variant.
struct Header {
    version: MsgVersion,
    sender: ParticipantId,
    receiver: ParticipantId,
}
```

While `Payload` will be defined as:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize the payload for a message.
enum Payload {
    SharePackage(messages::SharePackage),
    SigningCommitments(messages::SigningCommitments),
    SigningPackage(messages::SigningPackage),
    SignatureShare(messages::SignatureShare),
    AggregateSignature(messages::AggregateSignature),
}
```

> All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

Reviewer 3: 👍

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
/// The numeric values used to identify each `Payload` variant during serialization.
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    SharePackage,
    SigningCommitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    AggregateSignature,
}

/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.

> struct MsgVersion(u8);

Reviewer 3: @teor2345 @oxarbitrage what if this is an enum instead, also `repr(u8)`? So that there will only be a strict set of supported versions. Yes the first pass at this will be just an enum with a single variant, the current default, which serializes to 0u8 or whatever.

Reviewer: I think an enum is a good idea. But that change isn't urgent, because it doesn't change the wire format.

Can you open a ticket to update the implementation after Zcon?

Author: Thanks, this is now https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/issues/112

const BASIC_FROST_SERIALIZATION: MsgVersion = MsgVersion(0);

/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
///
/// In the `frost` module, participant ID `0` should be invalid.
/// But in serialization, we want participants to be indexed from `0..n`,
/// where `n` is the number of participants.
/// This helps us look up their shares and commitments in serialized arrays.
/// So in serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator the highest IDs,
/// and mark those IDs as invalid for signers.
///
/// "When performing Shamir secret sharing, a polynomial `f(x)` is used to generate
/// each party’s share of the secret. The actual secret is `f(0)` and the party with
/// ID `i` will be given a share with value `f(i)`.
/// Since a DKG may be implemented in the future, we recommend that the ID `0` be declared invalid."

> /// https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/main/zcash-frost-audit-report-20210323.pdf#d

Reviewer 3: 👍

enum ParticipantId {
    /// A serialized participant ID for a signer.
    ///
    /// Must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
    Signer(u8),
    /// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
    Dealer,
    /// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
    Aggregator,
}

/// The fixed participant ID for the dealer.
const DEALER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 1;

/// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
const AGGREGATOR_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX;

/// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.

> const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u8 = u8::MAX - 2;

Reviewer 3: This will be updated after https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/issues/77 is complete, doesn't block this PR.

Author: Is this how this will be when we get `u68`?

```
const DEALER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u64 = u64::MAX - 1;
...
```

Author: I am askining it because in this case the dealer id will be `18446744073709551614` which is a bit weird.

Author: Will it be better if we reserve `u64::MIN` as the dealer and `u64::MAX + 1` as the aggregator ?

Reviewer 3: Yeah the same just `u64::MAX` instead of `u8::MAX`

Author: I made changes to FROST at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/105 and here in the spec at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/9b057f28789f108ae9eb8a984ac25b2dedc8088b

```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize `frost::SharePackage`.
///
/// The dealer sends this message to each signer for this round.
/// With this, the signer should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
/// the `sign()` function.
///
/// Note: `frost::SharePackage.public` can be calculated from `secret_share`.
struct messages::SharePackage {
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
    /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
    group_public: VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.

>     secret_share: frost::Scalar,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    secret_share: frost::Share,
```

Author: The `Share` type (https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/frost.rs#L64-L67) haves 2 problems:

- It repeats the participant ID we are already sending in the header
- I uses a `ShareCommitment` which is a vector of `Commitment`. Is the same problem as  https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85#discussion_r636488505

Reviewer 3: Changed to `frost::Secret`. As much as possible we should use `frost` types, not `jubjub` or `fr` types. At the FROST level, those are implementation details.

Author: Changed this at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/83794c56bb6d899f765bbbef6f20a70f6a5d55cc

>     /// Commitment for the signer as a single jubjub::AffinePoint.
>     /// A set of commitments to the coefficients (which themselves are scalars)
>     /// for a secret polynomial _f_: `frost::SharePackage.share.commitment`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// The commitments to the coefficients for our secret polynomial _f_,
    /// used to generate participants' key shares. Participants use these to perform 
    /// verifiable secret sharing.
```

Author: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/f9e73afb23c9fc33fa1285d7825271472c879683

>     share_commitment: Vec<jubjub::AffinePoint>,

Reviewer 3: I think this can be https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/frost.rs#L91?

```suggestion
    share_commitment: frost::ShareCommitment,
```

Author: It is smaller the way we are doing. `ShareCommitment` (https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/frost.rs#L91) is a vector of `Commitment` (https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/frost.rs#L76) which is an `jubjub::ExtendedPoint`. We prefer to use a vector of `AffinePoint` instead as it is smaller in size.

Author: ...
We then convert the `AffinePoint` to/from 32 byte representation https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/74df415b1f95c0d297ebe36c67812f9c6bf9d8f7/rfcs/0001-messages.md#affinepoint

Reviewer 3: So looking at all usages of `generate_shares()` and `verify_share()` currently, I think we should change the `Commitment`s to be newtypes around `jubjub::AffinePoint`, so as to avoid this end-run around collective types like `ShareCommitment`, which exists for this use. The transform into `jubjub::ExtendedPoint` happens once per commitment before compute is done, which is fine / not expensive. 

@chelseakomlo any thoughts

Author: I made this changes at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/83794c56bb6d899f765bbbef6f20a70f6a5d55cc

}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningCommitments`.
///
/// Each signer must send this message to the aggregator.
/// A signing commitment from the first round of the signing protocol.
struct messages::SigningCommitments {
    /// The hiding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.hiding`

>     hiding: jubjub::AffinePoint,

Reviewer 3: When `Commitment` is migrated to wrap `jubjub::AffinePoint`, we should migrate these to `Commitment`

Author: I id this change at the FROST in https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/106 and here at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/83794c56bb6d899f765bbbef6f20a70f6a5d55cc

struct messages::SigningPackage {
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
    signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,
    /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`.
    ///
    /// Each signer should perform protocol-specific verification on the message.
    message: Vec<u8>,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SignatureShare`.
///
/// Each signer sends their signatures to the aggregator who is going to collect them
/// and generate a final spend signature.
struct messages::SignatureShare {
     /// This participant's signature over the message: `frost::SignatureShare.signature`
    signature: frost::Scalar,
}

/// The data required to serialize a successful output from `frost::aggregate()`.
///
/// The final signature is broadcasted by the aggregator to all signers.
struct messages::AggregateSignature {
    /// The aggregated group commitment: `Signature<SpendAuth>.r_bytes` returned by `frost::aggregate`

>     group_commitment: jubjub::AffinePoint,

Reviewer 3: When `GroupCommitment` is redefined to wrap `jubjub::AffinePoint`, use that here

Author: I have a PR for the FROST change at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/106 and i changed the spec to use `GroupCommitment` at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/83794c56bb6d899f765bbbef6f20a70f6a5d55cc

    /// A plain Schnorr signature created by summing all the signature shares:
    /// `Signature<SpendAuth>.s_bytes` returned by `frost::aggregate`

>     schnorr_signature: frost::Scalar,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    schnorr_signature: jubjub::Signature
```

Author: I can't find `jubjub::Signature`. Are you sure is that what you meant ?

Author: I added a new type `frost::FrostSignature` for this.

    hiding: frost::Commitment,
    /// The binding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.binding`
    binding: frost::Commitment,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningPackage`.
///
/// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and
/// sends it to each signer with all the commitments collected.
struct messages::SigningPackage {
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
    signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,
    /// The message to be signed: `frost::SigningPackage.message`.
    ///
    /// Each signer should perform protocol-specific verification on the message.
    message: Vec<u8>,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SignatureShare`.
///
/// Each signer sends their signatures to the aggregator who is going to collect them
/// and generate a final spend signature.
struct messages::SignatureShare {
     /// This participant's signature over the message: `frost::SignatureShare.signature`

>     signature: frost::Scalar,

Author: It will be tricky to change this `Scalar` to a frost type as the right one will be `SignatureShare` which repeats the index id:

https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/frost.rs#L397

Author: I added a new type in FROST: https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/107 and applied it to this spec at https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/pull/85/commits/189efc20845d02723996abedbcdb3f4857e65dcb

    SignatureShare(messages::SignatureShare),
    AggregateSignature(messages::AggregateSignature),
}
```

All the messages and new types will be defined in a new file `src/frost/messages.rs`

## Reference-level explanation

Here we explore in detail the header types and all the message payloads. 

### Header

Fields of the header define new types. Proposed implementation for them is as follows:

```rust
/// The numeric values used to identify each `Payload` variant during serialization.
#[repr(u8)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum MsgType {
    SharePackage,
    SigningCommitments,
    SigningPackage,
    SignatureShare,
    AggregateSignature,
}

/// The numeric values used to identify the protocol version during serialization.
struct MsgVersion(u8);

const BASIC_FROST_SERIALIZATION: MsgVersion = MsgVersion(0);

/// The numeric values used to identify each participant during serialization.
///
/// In the `frost` module, participant ID `0` should be invalid.
/// But in serialization, we want participants to be indexed from `0..n`,
/// where `n` is the number of participants.
/// This helps us look up their shares and commitments in serialized arrays.

> /// So in serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator the highest IDs,
> /// and mark those IDs as invalid for signers.

Reviewer: This specification change allows us to adapt to discontinuous FROST IDs.

It won't change any code now - only when we change FROST ID generation.
```suggestion
/// So in serialization, we assign the dealer and aggregator the highest IDs,
/// and mark those IDs as invalid for signers. Then we serialize the
/// participants in numeric order of their FROST IDs.
```

/// The fixed participant ID for the aggregator.
const AGGREGATOR_PARTICIPANT_ID: u64 = u64::MAX;

/// The maximum `ParticipantId::Signer` in this serialization format.
///
/// We reserve two participant IDs for the dealer and aggregator.
const MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID: u64 = u64::MAX - 2;
```

### Payloads

Each payload defines a new message:

```rust
/// The data required to serialize `frost::SharePackage`.
///
/// The dealer sends this message to each signer for this round.
/// With this, the signer should be able to build a `SharePackage` and use
/// the `sign()` function.
///
/// Note: `frost::SharePackage.public` can be calculated from `secret_share`.
struct messages::SharePackage {
    /// The public signing key that represents the entire group:
    /// `frost::SharePackage.group_public`.
    group_public: VerificationKey<SpendAuth>,
    /// This participant's secret key share: `frost::SharePackage.share.value`.
    secret_share: frost::Secret,
    /// The commitments to the coefficients for our secret polynomial _f_,
    /// used to generate participants' key shares. Participants use these to perform
    /// verifiable secret sharing.

>     share_commitment: Vec<frost::Commitment>,

Reviewer: How does the recipient of this message know which commitment to use?
Do we need to turn it into a `BTreeMap<ParticipantId, _>`?
(And update the serialization format?)

This is probably a good idea anyway:
* the array format is consistent between messages
* if we change Id generation, we won't need to change the format
```suggestion
    /// Share packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
    /// `ParticipantId`s must be serialized in ascending numeric order.
    share_commitment: BTreeMap<ParticipantId, frost::Commitment>,
```

}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningCommitments`.
///
/// Each signer must send this message to the aggregator.
/// A signing commitment from the first round of the signing protocol.
struct messages::SigningCommitments {
    /// The hiding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.hiding`
    hiding: frost::Commitment,
    /// The binding point: `frost::SigningCommitments.binding`
    binding: frost::Commitment,
}

/// The data required to serialize `frost::SigningPackage`.
///
/// The aggregator decides what message is going to be signed and
/// sends it to each signer with all the commitments collected.
struct messages::SigningPackage {
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.

>     signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,

Author: I am considering the use of a `BTreeMap` here instead of a `HashMap` to guanrantee the order in the serialization:

https://github.com/bincode-org/bincode/issues/230

Unsure if we should change the spec or if it is just an implementation detail.

Reviewer: I think it would be better to change the spec.
```suggestion
    /// The collected commitments for each signer as a hashmap of
    /// unique participant identifiers: `frost::SigningPackage.signing_commitments`
    ///
    /// Signing packages that contain duplicate or missing `ParticipantId`s are invalid.
    /// `ParticipantId`s must be serialized in ascending numeric order.
    signing_commitments: HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>,
```

Reviewer: Good catch!

    }
}
```

This will require to have validation error messages as:

```rust
use thiserror::Error;

#[derive(Clone, Error, Debug)]
pub enum MsgErr {
    #[error("sender and receiver are the same")]
    SameSenderAndReceiver,
}
```

Then to create a valid `Header` in the sender side we call:

```rust
let header = Validate::validate(&Header {
    ..
}).expect("a valid header");
```

The receiver side will validate the header using the same method. Instead of panicking the error can be ignored to don't crash and keep waiting for other (potentially valid) messages.

```rust
if let Ok(header) = msg.header.validate() {
    ..
}
```

### Rules

The following rules must be implemented:

#### Header

- `version` must be a supported version.
- `sender` and `receiver` can't be the same.
- The `ParticipantId` variants of `sender` and `receiver` must match the message type.

#### Payloads

- Each jubjub type must be validated during deserialization.
- `share_commitments`:
  - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
  - Lenght must be at least `MIN_SIGNERS` (`2` signers).
- `signing_commitments`:
    - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.

>     - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid. This is implicit in the use of `HashMap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid. This is implicit in the use of `BTreeMap`.
    - Signing packages must serialize in ascending numeric `ParticipantId` order. This is the order of `BTreeMap.iter`.
```

    - Length must be at least `MIN_THRESHOLD` (`2` required signers).
- `message`: signed messages have a protocol-specific length limit. For Zcash, that limit is the maximum network protocol message length: `2^21` bytes (2 MB).

## Serialization/Deserialization

Each message struct needs to serialize to bytes representation before it is sent through the wire and must deserialize to the same struct (round trip) on the receiver side. We use `serde` and macro derivations (`Serialize` and `Deserialize`) to automatically implement where possible.

This will require deriving serde in several types defined in `frost.rs`. 
Manual implementation of serialization/deserialization will be located at a new mod `src/frost/serialize.rs`.

### Byte order

Each byte chunk specified below is in little-endian order unless is specified otherwise.

Multi-byte integers **must not** be used for serialization, because they have different byte orders on different platforms.

### Header

> The `Header` part of the message is 4 bytes total:
> 
> Bytes | Field name | Data type
> ------|------------|-----------
> 1     | msg_type   | u8
> 1     | version    | u8
> 1     | sender     | u64
> 1     | receiver   | u64

Reviewer: Two urgent changes:
1. The version field must come first, so the parser knows how to interpret the rest of the message
2. Update the `ParticipantId` sizes

Another change we should open a ticket for:
3. Consider aligning all fields to 8 bytes using padding (or by expanding other fields)
```suggestion
The `Header` part of the message is 18 bytes total:

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
1     | version    | u8
1     | msg_type   | u8
8     | sender     | u64
8     | receiver   | u64
```

Conversion from one type to the other is trivial:

https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.AffinePoint.html#impl-From%3CExtendedPoint%3E
https://docs.rs/jubjub/0.6.0/jubjub/struct.ExtendedPoint.html#impl-From%3CAffinePoint%3E

We use `AffinePoint::to_bytes` and `AffinePoint::from_bytes` to get a 32-byte little-endian canonical representation. See https://github.com/zkcrypto/jubjub/blob/main/src/lib.rs#L443

#### VerificationKey

`redjubjub::VerificationKey<SpendAuth>`s can be serialized and deserialized using `<[u8; 32]>::from` and `VerificationKey::from`. See https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L80-L90 and https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/redjubjub/blob/main/src/verification_key.rs#L114-L121.

### Payload

Payload part of the message is variable in size and depends on message type.

#### `SharePackage`

Bytes           | Field name       | Data type
----------------|------------------|-----------
32              | group_public     | VerificationKey<SpendAuth>
32              | secret_share     | Share
1               | participants     | u8

> 32*participants | share_commitment | Vec\<Commitment\>

Reviewer: Index shares by ParticipantId
```suggestion
(8+32)*participants | share_commitment | BTreeMap<ParticipantId, Commitment>
```

#### `SigningCommitments`

Bytes   | Field name          | Data type
--------|---------------------|-----------
32   | hiding | Commitment
32   | binding | Commitment

#### `SigningPackage`

Bytes                  | Field name         | Data type
-----------------------|--------------------|-----------
1                      | participants       | u8

> (1+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>

Reviewer: Update `ParticipantId` size
```suggestion
(8+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| HashMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>
```

        if self.sender.0 == self.receiver.0 {
            return Err(MsgErr::SameSenderAndReceiver);
        }
        Ok(self)
    }
}
```

This will require to have validation error messages as:

```rust
use thiserror::Error;

#[derive(Clone, Error, Debug)]
pub enum MsgErr {
    #[error("sender and receiver are the same")]
    SameSenderAndReceiver,
}
```

Then to create a valid `Header` in the sender side we call:

```rust
let header = Validate::validate(&Header {
    ..
}).expect("a valid header");
```

The receiver side will validate the header using the same method. Instead of panicking the error can be ignored to don't crash and keep waiting for other (potentially valid) messages.

```rust
if let Ok(header) = msg.header.validate() {
    ..
}
```

### Rules

The following rules must be implemented:

#### Header

- `version` must be a supported version.
- `sender` and `receiver` can't be the same.
- The `ParticipantId` variants of `sender` and `receiver` must match the message type.

#### Payloads

- Each jubjub type must be validated during deserialization.
- `share_commitments`:
  - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.

>   - Lenght must be at least `MIN_SIGNERS` (`2` signers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Length must be at least `MIN_SIGNERS` (`2` signers).
```

- `signing_commitments`:

>     - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
>     - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid. This is implicit in the use of `BTreeMap`.
>     - Signing packages must serialize in ascending numeric `ParticipantId` order. This is the order of `BTreeMap.iter`.
>     - Length must be at least `MIN_THRESHOLD` (`2` required signers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Length must be less than or equal to `MAX_SIGNER_PARTICIPANT_ID`.
    - Length must be at least `MIN_THRESHOLD` (`2` required signers).
    - Signing packages that contain duplicate `ParticipantId`s are invalid. This is implicit in the use of `BTreeMap` during serialization, but must be checked during deserialization.
    - Signing packages must serialize in ascending numeric `ParticipantId` order. This is the order of `BTreeMap.iter` during serialization, but must be checked during deserialization..
```

Bytes                  | Field name         | Data type
-----------------------|--------------------|-----------
1                      | participants       | u8
(8+32+32)*participants | signing_commitments| BTreeMap<ParticipantId, SigningCommitments>
8                      | message_length     | u64
message_length         | message            | Vec\<u8\>

#### `SignatureShare`

Bytes | Field name | Data type
------|------------|-----------
32    | signature  | SignatureResponse

#### `AggregateSignature`

Bytes | Field name       | Data type
------|------------------|-----------
32    | group_commitment | GroupCommitment
32    | schnorr_signature| SignatureResponse

## Not included

The following are a few things this RFC is not considering:

- The RFC does not describe implementation-specific issues - it is focused on message structure and serialization.
- Implementations using this serialization should handle missing messages using timeouts or similar protocol-specific mechanisms.
    - This is particularly important for `SigningPackage`s, which only need a threshold of participants to continue.
- Messages larger than 4 GB are not supported on 32-bit platforms.

> - Implementations should validate that message lengths are lower than a protocol-specific maximum length, then allocate message memory.

Reviewer: Oops we forgot this one, it's pretty relevant for Zcash:
```suggestion
- Implementations should validate that message lengths are lower than a protocol-specific maximum length, then allocate message memory.
- Implementations should distinguish between FROST messages from different signature schemes using implementation-specific mechanisms
```
